README.md, before:

# Data Science and Machine Learning projects
This repository contains some of the projects that I am working on currently. Each respective projects can be found inside the respective directories above. All of them are in development phase and will be significantly improved in future.

# Most recent Project
My current focus is on the following project: https://github.com/wrijupan/DataScience_Projects/tree/master/MachineFailureDiagnosis.

I have designed this probject independently to solve a real-world industry problem with a high business impact. Currently, I am working on it actively under the direct supervision of industry experts whom I met in an ongoing Data Science bootcamp in Berlin, the Data Science Retreat.

# Methods
The projects described above cover the following methods mainly:
1. Importing data
2. Visualizing and exploring data
3. Data cleaning
4. Feature engineering
5. Encoding and treating outliers
6. Building Machine Learning models
7. Evaluating Machine Learning models

Commit message:

Add sound project description to README

README.md, after:

# Data Science and Machine Learning projects
This repository contains some of the projects that I am working on currently. Each respective projects can be found inside the respective directories above. All of them are in development phase and will be significantly improved in future.

# Most recent Data Science project
My current focus is on the following project: https://github.com/wrijupan/DataScience_Projects/tree/master/MachineFailureDiagnosis.

#### Description
Diagnosing the failure of industrial machines using their acoustic footprint over time. 

The problem at its core is a sound anomaly detection, which will be tackled using a Computer Vision approach by converting the machine sounds into image representations. 

I have designed this probject independently to solve a real-world industry problem with a high business impact. Currently, I am working on it actively under the direct supervision of industry experts whom I met in an ongoing Data Science bootcamp in Berlin, the Data Science Retreat.

# Methods
The projects described above cover the following methods mainly:
1. Importing data
2. Visualizing and exploring data
3. Data cleaning
4. Feature engineering
5. Encoding and treating outliers
6. Building Machine Learning models
7. Evaluating Machine Learning models
